## Summary
This is an RFC to turn RFCs to be the common standards for ROD's proposals, guidelines, etc.

## Motivation
Post-Himeno-Sena society is a world full of hope. She has proven that although the days of modern culture were long gone, post-modern culture can serve as a fine  replacement. That has defeated the whole purpose of the NOZSP and ultimately lead to its termination and transition into the Ministry of Education.

Hence, the restriction of nozsism has been lifted, and there are numerous plans that's in the work. The [[0000-rfc]] proposal proposes a [RFC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Request_for_Comments) system to systematically store all of the documents regarding these plans.

The need for systematically store these documents is to "not let these plans stray away from their initial objectives", and its motivation is from the on-going post-nozsism anxiety which is entirely based on unjustified claims that has been considered invalid since the dissolvement of the NOZSP.

## Execution

### RFC format
An RFC must have 5 sections (which can be blank):
- Summary: a short summary of the RFC's content
- Motivation: a block of text that explains the motivation behind the RFC
- Execution: documentation on how the RFC should be carried out
- Alternatives: alternative ways to achieve the same result/objective described in the Motivation section
- FAQ: frequently asked questions regarding the RFC

### Storage
The current storage of the RFC documents is in a subdirectory of the [[Obsidian]] vault of [[0003-everything]], but it may be changed into any subdirectory of any [[Obsidian]] vault.

The RFC documents are written in Markdown format, which makes it easily readable in plain-text form.

## Alternatives
A common criticism of this RFC is that it took valuable time to write these documents, which may be detrimental to national efficiency. However, writing these documents can have several benefits like improving typing speed, language proficiency, etc.

## FAQ